say you have serial killer just you know
your basic murderer now if you're a
police and you're trying to catch the
serial killer you can think about how
far away and try and draw a dead body
here how far away
don't badly have fun wedding your
[Music]
serial killer is going to live from the
victim that you just found and you can
think of this in terms of distance and
you can think of it in terms of
probability now here's the thing if you
aren't super killer the chances of you
committing a murder jobs are you
committing a man right next door to
where you live they're going to be
pretty low right because generally
speaking you know you don't want police
sort of sniffing around your doorstep if
you don't live it further away then so
you're still in the same town but you
know perhaps if you speeds away then
your chances of finding your killer are
gonna increase because people still like
some level of convenience when they
commit their crimes but as you go
further away still this effect is gonna
drop off your chances when you kiddo
again gonna drop off you know I've often
get people so you're travelling from
Scotland to London to commit crime so
what you end up with is a curve that
looks a bit like this okay joy is not my
forte that's really bad
well and this is the kind of code that
you end up with so you got this buffer
zone here around the site of your
original crime its probability the peaks
and then drops off now you can imagine
taking this sort of a shape spiking it
in a map and spinning it around is the
surprise and all distances and you end
up with these curves that tell you how
you are to find your killer now if you
just got one curve snot doesn't really
help me that much but once you start
layering them up if you have more than
one offense you can end up with a really
good idea of where you expect your
murder to come from new you thinking
what if you're the serial killer and you
know this and you're trying to buck the
trend and that is something with it
happen but the important thing about
this method is that all this is useful
is a way that police can order their
list of suspects for who they go and
investigate next so this method doesn't
change who's on the suspect list
it doesn't apply as evidence in court
it's just a way to kind of optimize your
policing process so really even if you
thought you were being smart and
committed crimes that were further away
from your home or right next door
I'm afraid he's still illegal and you
will still go to prison and get caught